March new to the web (#9839)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/web-platform-03-2023/index.md

---
layout: post
title: "New to the web platform in March"
subhead: >
  Discover some of the interesting features that landed in stable and beta web browsers during March 2023.
description: >
  Discover some of the interesting features that landed in stable and beta web browsers during March 2023.

> date: 2023-03-30

Author: ```suggestion
date: 2023-03-31
```

{% endAside %}

### Global HTML attributes

Firefox 111 adds support for a couple of useful [global HTML attributes](/learn/html/attributes/#global-attributes). The [`autocapitalize`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/autocapitalize) attribute controls whether text may be automatically capitalized when the user is typing on a virtual keyboard. 

{% BrowserCompat 'html.global_attributes.autocapitalize' %}

The [`translate`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/translate) attribute indicates whether an element should be translated when a page is localized. 

{% BrowserCompat 'html.global_attributes.translate' %}

### Origin Private File System (OPFS)

Firefox adds support for the [Origin Private File System (OPFS)](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/File_System_Access_API#origin_private_file_system) when using the File System Access API. [Learn more about the OPFS](https://developer.chrome.com/articles/origin-private-file-system/).

### The View Transitions API

> Chrome 111 adds the [View Transitions API](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/View_Transitions_API) making the creation of polished transitions in Single-Page Apps (SPAs) simpler by snapshotting views and allowing the DOM to change without any overlap between states.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Chrome 111 adds the [View Transitions API](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/View_Transitions_API), making the creation of polished transitions in Single-Page Apps (SPAs) simpler by snapshotting views and allowing the DOM to change without any overlap between states.
```

Find out more in the launch post [SPA view transitions land in Chrome 111](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/spa-view-transitions-land/).

{% BrowserCompat 'api.ViewTransition' %}

### New CSS color spaces and functions

> Also in Chrome is a whole new set of ways to use color on the web. Now supported are color spaces that access colors outside of the RGB gamut, along with the `color()` and `color-mix()` functions. Learn more in our [High definition CSS color guide](https://developer.chrome.com/articles/high-definition-css-color-guide/) and [blog post on `color-mix()`](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/css-color-mix/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also included in Chrome 111 are a whole new set of ways to use color on the web. Chrome now supports color spaces that access colors outside of the RGB gamut, along with the `color()` and `color-mix()` functions. Learn more in our [High definition CSS color guide](https://developer.chrome.com/articles/high-definition-css-color-guide/) and [blog post on `color-mix()`](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/css-color-mix/).
```

{% BrowserCompat 'css.types.color_value.color-mix' %}

The Chrome release also includes [new DevTools](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/new-in-devtools-111/#color) to help you work with this new color functionality.

{% Aside %}
You can also test the new color functions `color()`, `lab()`, `lch()`, `oklab()`, and `oklch()` in Firefox 111, currently behind a preference `layout.css.more_color_4.enabled`.
{% endAside %}

### More control over `:nth-child()` selections

Chrome 111 adds the ability to pass a selector list into `:nth-child()` and `nth-last-child()`. Learn more about this, and see examples in the post [More control over :nth-child() selections with the of S syntax](https://developer.chrome.com/articles/css-nth-child-of-s/).

{% BrowserCompat 'css.selectors.nth-child.of_syntax' %}

### Support for previous and next slide in the Media Session API

Finally in this list of Chrome 111 additions are the [Presenting slides actions](/media-session/#presenting-slides-actions) for the media session API—`"previousslide"` and `"nextslide"`.

{% BrowserCompat 'api.MediaSession.nextslide_type' %}

### Pseudo-class support in Safari

> Safari 16.4 is an amazing release for the web platform, this article won't cover all of the additions so check out the full list of features in the [Safari 16.4 release notes](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/safari-release-notes/safari-16_4-release-notes). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Safari 16.4 is an amazing release for the web platform. This article won't cover all of the additions, so check out the full list of features in the [Safari 16.4 release notes](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/safari-release-notes/safari-16_4-release-notes). 
```

There's a bunch of additional CSS pseudo-classes with support in this release: `:user-invalid`, `:user-valid`, `:dir()`, `:modal`, and `:fullscreen`.

### New range syntax for media queries

This Safari release makes the far more elegant and useful range syntax for media queries interoperable across all three engines. See examples of this syntax in [this post](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/media-query-range-syntax/), published when the syntax shipped in Chrome. 

{% BrowserCompat 'css.at-rules.media.range_syntax' %}

### CSS Properties and Values

Safari 16.4 adds support for [`@property`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/@property) enabling CSS custom property registration directly in a stylesheet. Learn more about this in [@property: giving superpowers to CSS variables](/at-property/).

{% BrowserCompat 'css.at-rules.property' %}

### CSS API support

> The great additions for CSS keep coming, with support for the [CSS Typed OM](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/CSS_Typed_OM_API). This API exposes CSS values as typed JavaScript objects rather than strings. It makes working with CSS from JavaScript easier, and is more performant than existing methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The great additions for CSS keep coming, with support for the [CSS Typed OM](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/CSS_Typed_OM_API). This API exposes CSS values as typed JavaScript objects rather than strings. It makes working with CSS from JavaScript easier, and outperforms existing methods.
```
